docs/developer/web-api.adoc, before:

:page-layout: default
:page-title: Web API
:page-parent: Developer Guides

:toc:

== Introduction

The Spyglass Web API provides access to various information that is helpful for data pack/resource
pack toolings. It uses https://github.com/misode/mcmeta[misode/mcmeta] and
https://github.com/SpyglassMC/vanilla-mcdoc[SpyglassMC/vanilla-mcdoc] under the hood and provides a
few advantages over using the GitHub API directly:

* Accessible within mainland China.
* Cache invalidation is handled through standard HTTP headers like `ETag` and `If-None-Match`;
  no more git commit sha hackery needed on client side.
* Cleaner?

== General Usage

The Spyglass API root endpoint is `https://api.spyglassmc.com/`. Clients must identify themselves
using the `User-Agent` HTTP header; requests without the `User-Agent` header will be rejected.

=== Error Handling

All error responses (HTTP status code `4xx` and `5xx`) will include a JSON body with the following
structure:

* `message`: (`str`) A human readable message describing the error details.

=== Conditional Requests

All API endpoints include an https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/ETag[`ETag`]
header in the response. Clients should cache the value of `ETag` along with the response
body if possible, which can be achieved using the https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CacheStorage[CacheStorage API]
on browsers. For future requests at the same endpoint, clients should include the value of `ETag` in
the https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/If-None-Match[`If-None-Match`] request
header. A `304 Not Modified` response will be returned if the resource has not changed since
the last response.

=== Ratelimiting

Each API endpoint has a point cost depending on how expensive it is to serve the request. Each IP
address can consume up to 100 points per one hour window before receiving `429 Too Many Requests`
responses. Additionally, the response time will be degraded starting from 150 requests per 15 minute
window.

.Point Costs
|===
|Type |Points

|Conditional requests that end up with `304 Not Modified` responses |0
|Non-tarball requests |1
|Tarball requests |5
|===

Number of remaining points is provided through the `RateLimit-Remaining` response header. When
`429 Too Many Requests` responses are received, the client must wait at least `Retry-After` seconds
before trying again.

== Endpoints

=== `GET` https://api.spyglassmc.com/mcje/versions[`/mcje/versions`]

=== `GET` https://api.spyglassmc.com/mcje/versions/1.21/block_states[`/mcje/versions/:version/block_states`]

=== `GET` https://api.spyglassmc.com/mcje/versions/1.21/commands[`/mcje/versions/:version/commands`]

=== `GET` https://api.spyglassmc.com/mcje/versions/1.21/registries[`/mcje/versions/:version/registries`]

=== `GET` https://api.spyglassmc.com/mcje/versions/1.21/vanilla-assets-tiny/tarball[`/mcje/versions/:version/vanilla-assets-tiny/tarball`]

=== `GET` https://api.spyglassmc.com/mcje/versions/1.21/vanilla-data/tarball[`/mcje/versions/:version/vanilla-data/tarball`]

=== `GET` https://api.spyglassmc.com/vanilla-mcdoc/symbols[`/vanilla-mcdoc/symbols`]

=== `GET` https://api.spyglassmc.com/vanilla-mcdoc/tarball[`/vanilla-mcdoc/tarball`]

=== `POST` `/hooks/github`

Not for third party use. This endpoint accepts GitHub Webhook deliveries to update the local Git
repositories.

Commit message:

⚡️ Front web API with bunny.net CDN
* Non-European users should now experience lower latency.
* Origin server now listens on https://api-origin.spyglassmc.com,
  which only accepts CDN traffic. This should greatly reduce origin
  traffic.
* Ratelimiting logic has been removed and is now handled by CDN.
  The new ratelimits are also much more generous. Still please be
  gentle to my wallet :3

docs/developer/web-api.adoc, after:

:page-layout: default
:page-title: Web API
:page-parent: Developer Guides

:toc:

== Introduction

The Spyglass Web API provides access to various information that is helpful for data pack/resource
pack toolings. It uses https://github.com/misode/mcmeta[misode/mcmeta] and
https://github.com/SpyglassMC/vanilla-mcdoc[SpyglassMC/vanilla-mcdoc] under the hood and provides a
few advantages over using the GitHub API directly:

* Accessible within regions that have blocked `raw.githubusercontent.com` access.
* Cache invalidation is handled through standard HTTP headers like `ETag` and `If-None-Match`;
  no more git commit sha hackery needed on client side.
* Cleaner?

== General Usage

The Spyglass API root endpoint is `https://api.spyglassmc.com/`. Clients must identify themselves
using the `User-Agent` HTTP header; requests without the `User-Agent` header will be rejected.

=== Error Handling

All error responses (HTTP status code `4xx` and `5xx`) will include a JSON body with the following
structure:

* `message`: (`str`) A human readable message describing the error details.

=== Conditional Requests

All API endpoints include an https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/ETag[`ETag`]
header in the response. Clients should cache the value of `ETag` along with the response
body if possible, which can be achieved using the https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CacheStorage[CacheStorage API]
on browsers. For future requests at the same endpoint, clients should include the value of `ETag` in
the https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/If-None-Match[`If-None-Match`] request
header. A `304 Not Modified` response will be returned if the resource has not changed since
the last response.

=== Ratelimiting

Ratelimiting is generous and should not be hit by normal usage.

== Endpoints

=== `GET` https://api.spyglassmc.com/mcje/versions[`/mcje/versions`]

=== `GET` https://api.spyglassmc.com/mcje/versions/1.21/block_states[`/mcje/versions/:version/block_states`]

=== `GET` https://api.spyglassmc.com/mcje/versions/1.21/commands[`/mcje/versions/:version/commands`]

=== `GET` https://api.spyglassmc.com/mcje/versions/1.21/registries[`/mcje/versions/:version/registries`]

=== `GET` https://api.spyglassmc.com/mcje/versions/1.21/vanilla-assets-tiny/tarball[`/mcje/versions/:version/vanilla-assets-tiny/tarball`]

=== `GET` https://api.spyglassmc.com/mcje/versions/1.21/vanilla-data/tarball[`/mcje/versions/:version/vanilla-data/tarball`]

=== `GET` https://api.spyglassmc.com/vanilla-mcdoc/symbols[`/vanilla-mcdoc/symbols`]

=== `GET` https://api.spyglassmc.com/vanilla-mcdoc/tarball[`/vanilla-mcdoc/tarball`]

=== `POST` `/hooks/github`

Not for third party use. This endpoint accepts GitHub Webhook deliveries to update the local Git
repositories.
